# Cerebellar-Programming-Project
Videos to watch before able to make a study plan for domain knowledge:
1. [Michael Mauk's cerebellar talk shop](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2KTPtRk0QSM)
2. [Michael Mauk's Shadmehr Lab talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCZ-CGea84Q)

Video 1 points:
In in vivo spike recordings and animal behavior behavior is thought of in epochs of time which is part of the experimental trial design.
During an individual epoch neurons in the cerebellum function in a sequence and not homogeneously, and the sequence is meaningful.
How was that discovered?
-Cerebellar eyelid conditioning is a way of studying the cerebellum unusually directly. There are two inputs to the cerebellum, mossy
and climbing fibers. Thus there are 2 inputs. One input is the tone and the other is the puff of air into the eye. Learning happens in
the cerebellum and the cerebellum drives the expression of the eyelid responses where the animal learns to close its eyelid when the tone 
comes on. When the time lag between the tone and the threat to the eye is varied the cerebellum responds differently depending on the time lag. 
When the time lag is 1.5 seconds apart the cerebellum drives the expression of the eyelid response exactly 1.5 seconds after the next tone 
but if the time lag is 0.25 seconds apart the cerebellum drives the response at exactly the same time the tone is on.This suggests the cerebellum 
is not only encoding that the tone is on but how long it has been on. For a snapshot of the sequence of neuronal activity of the cerebellum at a point 
in time we can infer how long the tone has been on. The popular idea among neuroscientists is that once an input goes to a brain region it takes a layer of neurons to encode the input. That happens woth granule cells in the cerebellum. There has been a new synapse discovered that makes the encoding less sensitive to stray action potentials that the old models failed to predict. The pattern of neuronal activity must be constant for each trial of stimulus otherwise the cerebellum cannot learn to encode for the time the stimulus has been on. 
Is learning required for the encoding or is everytime a tone is on the cerebellum encodes the stimulus the same way? | You're teaching the same animal to, you know, wait half a second, and then a second and a half, two seconds. Is it. Every time it's getting a new integral, is it programming another set of cells that are going to have their own pattern? or is it building upon the one that does half a second and they add another one? And then if you come back and ask if there's a half a second, does it pull up the old pattern and initially it's a code half a second. Those are big questions. This is an oversimplification. But you can imagine that there's a part of the cerebellum that is creating patterns, and its job is just to create this pattern so that I can look at the pattern and know how long the toes put on. Then there's the part of the cerebellum that uses that pattern to learn. And in fact, the main learning synapses in the cerebellum are between the neurons generating the pattern and the neurons that make the output of the cerebellar cortex. 01:00So my answer to your question is it's the same. But if you trained the cerebellum to make a fast response, in other words, that would involve change in synapses that are of the neurons interacting. Now, if you retrained the animal to make a response to the same tone, but later, it would be the same pattern. 01:25But now the changes in synapses will be the synapses of the neurons that are active late. So the pattern is always there as a template. And then learning says, well, let's respond to that pattern, or let's respond to that part of the pattern. 01:39Let's respond to that part of the pattern to make. 01:41It's the same thing. I could answer the same question if there was no timing here, but we were talking about learning to different tones, you would say, well, there's a 1khz tone activates your neurons and those synapses change for that, a 10khz tone activates some other neurons and changes in their synapses. 02:03So now it's the same tone with a pattern are unfolding in time. 02:08You want an early response. You change the synapses of the early firing neurons. 02:12You want a later one to change the synapses of the later firing muscle. 
02:16So the granularity of these time sizes is getting fundamental. 02:20It tells you how quickly in time things can be responsive. 02:26So what is the granularity of that and what are the durations of activity of these granule cell groups? 
02:34Well, we only know this from guesses from simulations, because granule cells are notoriously one of the most difficult cells to record from in the entire brain. 02:43So we can record from them in slice, in vitro and learn their physical properties. 02:49It's almost impossible to record from them in vivo in an animal. 02:55It's one of the reasons, Charlie, that I started doing this computer simulation. 02:59We have ideas about granule cells and we can't record from granule cells, but granule cells are really simple. 03:05That makes them amenable to building accurate, sort of, of reliable. 
